#summary Installing HIVE services

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Installing HIVE Services =

This page describes how to install and initialize the HIVE services, including:

 * HIVE Web Service
 * Importing vocabularies into HIVE

== System Requirements ==

 * Java 1.6
 * Java servlet container/application server (Tomcat 6.x recommended)
 * See memory requirements below

== Memory Requirements ==

When using the KEA++ indexer with the H2-based vocabulary and all vocabularies loaded, HIVE requires ~512MB of memory. 

To increase the maximum JVM heap size, use the -Xmx option. To limit the proportion of VM spent in garbage collection before an {{{OutOfMemoryError}}} is thrown, use {{{-XX:UseGCOverheadLimit}}}. In Tomcat, this can be set using the {{{CATALINA_OPTS}}} variable, as in {{{catalina.sh}}}:

{{{
CATALINA_OPTS="-Xmx512m -XX:-UseGCOverheadLimit"
}}}

For KEA++ memory requirements using the in-memory indexer, see the [HIVEMemoryUsage HIVE memory usage] page.

== Installing Tomcat ==

The HIVE services can be installed using any Java servlet container or application server. For the purpose of this document, Tomcat 6.0 is assumed.

 * Download the latest [http://tomcat.apache.org/download-60.cgi Tomcat 6.x release]
 * Follow the Tomcat [http://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-6.0-doc/setup.html install instructions]
 * Optional: Modify the {{{catalina.sh}}} to set {{{CATALINA_OPTS}}} for increased heap allocation (see memory requirements above).

Simple install steps:
 * Download Tomcat zip or .tar.gz file
 * Extract archive ({{{unzip *.zip}}} or {{{tar xfz *.tar.gz}}})
 * {{{cd <tomcat_install>/bin}}} 
 * {{{bin/startup.sh}}}
 * Goto http://localhost:8080/, confirm Tomcat startup page displays


== Installing the HIVE Web Service ==
 * [http://code.google.com/p/hive-mrc/downloads/list Download] or build the {{{hiveweb.war}}}
 * Note: Due to a [http://claudiushauptmann.com/gwt-multipage/ limitation] in the version of GWT used by HIVE, the HIVE Web application must be installed as the ROOT webapp. 
 * Extract the contents of the hiveweb.war into the ROOT webapp directory
{{{
  cd /path/to/tomcat6/webapps/ROOT
  unzip /path/to/hiveweb.war
}}}

 * Modify the {{{WEB-INF/conf/hive.properties}}} file. This file contains the list of vocabularies configured for this HIVE Web instance and the "tagger" used for automatic indexing.
{{{
  # Configured vocabularies
  hive.vocabulary = # vocabulary name, e.g., "lcsh"

  # Selected tagger
  hive.tagger = # "kea" or "dummy"
}}}

 * Create a {{{hive.vocabulary}}} row for each configured vocabulary.
 * Set the {{{hive.tagger}}} value to either "kea" for KEA++ indexing or "dummy" for basic indexer.
 * Create a file {{{<vocabulary>.properties}}} for each vocabulary listed in the {{{hive.properties}}} file.


== HIVE Sample Data ==

To get started quickly, you can also download the AGROVOC [http://code.google.com/p/hive-mrc/downloads/list sample data]. This sample data includes pre-initialized indexes and KEA++ model.

  # Download and extract {{{hive-agrovoc-sample.zip}}} from the Downloads page
  # Move the {{{hive-data}}} directory to the desired location (default is {{{/usr/local/hive/hive-data}}})
  # Copy {{{agrovoc.properties}}} to the {{{WEB-INF/conf}}} directory
  # Edit {{{agrovoc.properties}}}, update paths to location of {{{hive-data}}} directory.


== Importing Vocabularies into HIVE ==

The HIVE services require the initialization of several indexes from one orm ore vocabularies in SKOS RDF/XML format. You will not be able to start the HIVE Web or Rest services until this initialization process is complete. This process creates a [http://www.openrdf.org/ Sesame] store, [http://lucene.apache.org/ Lucene] index, alphabetic and top-concept indexes from the source RDF. If [http://www.nzdl.org/Kea/ KEA++] indexing is enabled, the import process also creates and trains the KEA++ mode.

The import process is detailed in the ImportingVocabularies section. A brief summary of the requirements include:
  # A vocabulary in SKOS RDF/XML format
  # A HIVE vocabulary configuration file ((e.g., {{{<vocabulary>.properties}}}
  # A hive.properties file
  # If "kea" indexing is enabled, a set of training documents