#summary Describes the MeSH to SKOS conversion process

== Overview ==

The National Library of Medicine (NLM) does not offer an official SKOS-formatted version of the Medical Subject Headings (MeSH). This document describes one approach to converting the MeSH vocabulary from the NLM provided XML format to SKOS for indexing in HIVE.

== Earlier Efforts ==

Van Assem _et al_ present a method of converting thesauri, including MeSH, to SKOS. The original paper that describes the method and Prolog application are available for download from http://thesauri.cs.vu.nl/eswc06/. The proposal outlined here builds off of this earlier work.

The method described by Van Assem _et al_ maps each MeSH {{{Descriptor}}} to a SKOS {{{Concept}}}. The name of the preferred {{{Term}}} of the preferred {{{Concept}}} is mapped to SKOS {{{prefLabel}}} and each non-preferred MeSH {{{Term}}} to a SKOS {{{altLabel}}}. The authors recognize that, through this mapping, information about the MeSH concepts and terms is lost. The relations between concepts with a descriptor as well as the preferred term for a non-preferred concept are not captured. Also, the programmatic implementation fails to generate the {{{skos:narrower}}} relationship as required by HIVE.

The method proposed in this paper takes an alternative approach, mapping each MeSH {{{Concept}}} to a SKOS {{{Concept}}}. Preferred and non-preferred {{{Terms}}} are mapped to {{{skos:prefLabel}}} and {{{skos:altLabel}}} respectively. The relationships between concepts is maintained. Using this approach, the distinction between a preferred and non-preferred concept is lost. This is a recognized limitation of the Core SKOS model (http://www.w3.org/TR/skos-primer/). 

== About MeSH ==

The Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) thesaurus is a controlled vocabulary maintained by the National Library of Medicine intended for the indexing and cataloging of biomedical information resources. MeSH is used for indexing of journals in the MEDLINE/PUBMED databases as well as books, articles, and other materials acquired by the library^1^. The MeSH thesaurus contains over 26,000 descriptors representing 177,000 terms.

== MeSH Structure ==

The following files can be downloaded from the NLM website (http://www.nlm.nih.gov/mesh/filelist.html). Only the descriptor records are used for this conversion.
 * desc2011.xml
 * qual2011.xml
 * supp2011.xml

=== Descriptors, Concepts, and Terms ===

Descriptors are used to index documents. Most descriptors are used to identify the subject of an indexed document (topical). Some descriptors in the thesaurus are not intended for topical indexing (publication types, geographic descriptors).

 * Each Descriptor contains one or more related Concepts
   * Descriptors are topical or non-topical
   * Descriptors are assigned on or more Tree Numbers
   * One Concept within the Descriptor is the preferred Concept
   * All Concepts within a Descriptor share common Tree Numbers
   * Each Concept contains one or more synonymous Terms
     * One Term within each Concept is the preferred Term
   * Concepts within each Descriptor are related (BRD, NRW, REL)
   * Descriptors are related
     * Through the MeSH hierarchy
     * Through specific elements ({{{DescriptorReferredTo}}}) including {{{SeeRelatedDescriptor}}}, {{{PharmacologicalAction}}}, {{{ECIN}}}, {{{ECOUT}}}.


See also:
 * "Concepts, synonyms, and Descriptor structure" in http://www.nlm.nih.gov/mesh/xmlmesh.html 
 * "Concept Structure in XML MeSH" http://www.nlm.nih.gov/mesh/concept_structure.html
 * "Relationships in Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)" http://www.nlm.nih.gov/mesh/meshrels.html


=== Qualifiers ===

The MeSH vocabulary contains 83 topical qualifiers for use with descriptors. Not all qualifiers can be used with every descriptor. Each descriptor record contains a list of allowable modifiers.


=== Supplementary Concept Records ===

Supplementary Concept Records (SCR) are used to index specific chemicals and drugs. SCRs do not have tree numbers, but are related to Descriptors through the {{{HeadingMappedTo}}} element.


== Relationships ==

Broader and narrower concepts are determined by: 
 * Tree number: Parent concepts are broader, child concepts are narrower
 * Concept relations (BRD, NRW)

Related concepts are determined by:
 * Descriptor relations: e.g., {{{SeeRelatedList}}}
 * Concept relations (REL)

== Mesh-to-SKOS ==

The current HIVE MeSH-to-SKOS converter is implemented in the {{{edu.unc.ils.mrc.MeshConverter}} class. This is a SAX-based XML parser that reads the {{{desc2011.xml}}} file and SKOS concepts from the MeSH each {{{DescriptorRecord}}}. 

The MeSH {{{Concept}}} is mapped to a SKOS Concept. The MeSH {{{DescriptorRecord}}} is used to determine the position in the hierarchy ({{{TreeNumber}}}) and relationships between descriptors ({{{SeeRelatedDescriptors}}}). Concepts within related Descriptors are related.

Notes:
 * Qualifiers are not supported
 * Supplementary Concept Records are not supported

Mapping:
 * For each descriptor
  * Is it a topical descriptor ({{{DescriptorClass}}} = 1)
  * Get tree numbers ({{{TreeNumberList}}})
    * Parent node maps to {{{skos:broader}}}
    * Child node maps to {{{skos:narrower}}}
  * Get descriptor relations ({{{SeeRelatedList}}})
  * Get concepts ({{{ConceptList}}})
  * For each concept (maps to {{{skos:concept}}})
    * Is it the preferred concept?
    * Get the scope note ({{{ScopeNote}}})
      * Maps to {{{skos:scopeNote}}}
    * Get concept relations ({{{ConceptRelationList}}})
      * {{{NRW}}} maps to {{{skos:narrower}}}
      * {{{BRD}}} maps to {{{skos:broader}}}
      * {{{REL}}} maps to {{{skos:related}}}
    * Get the term list ({{{TermList}}})
    * For each term
      * Is it the preferred term?
        * {{{Y}}} maps to {{{skos:prefLabel}}}
        * {{{N}}} maps to {{{skos:altLabel}}}



== MeSH to SKOS ==

For each Concept:
 * Get related concepts based on descriptor relations
 * Get broader concepts based on concept relations
 * Get narrower concepts based on concept relations
 * Get related concepts based on concept relations
 * Get terms for the concept

== References ==

Fact Sheet: Medical Subject Headings (MeSH). ^1^ http://www.nlm.nih.gov/pubs/factsheets/mesh.html

Van Assem, M., Malaise, V., Miles, A., and Schreiber, G. http://thesauri.cs.vu.nl/eswc06/