#summary How to convert a vocabulary to SKOS RDF/XML.

= Introduction =

This document describes the process used to convert a vocabulary to SKOS RDF/XML for import into HIVE.

== LCSH ==

SKOS versions of LCSH can be downloaded directly from the Library of Congress. No conversion is required.

 * http://id.loc.gov/download/
   * Select "LCSH RDF/XML"

== AGROVOC ==

SKOS versions of AGROVOC can be downloaded directly from the FAO:

  * http://aims.fao.org/website/Download/sub

== NBII ==

The NBII Biocomplexity Thesaurus is available as a SKOS web-service. The NBII data is also available for direct download in CSV and XML format. XML is currently used by HIVE for SKOS conversion.

 * http://my.nbii.gov
   * Directory > Browse directory
     * NBII Thesaurus
       * repgen.csv (3/6/2009)
       * repgen.xml (3/6/2009)
     * Latest update: 3/6/2009 as of 1/26/2011
 * Open SKOSCoverter project
   * Edit utils.myreaders.xml.NBIIXMLReader
     * In main(), specify path to repgen.xml and output directory for nbii.rdf
   * Run NBIIXMLReader
 * Note: NBII 

 
== ITIS ==
  
Integrated Taxinomic Information System (ITIS) is available in a variety of formats. MySQL is currently used by HIVE for SKOS conversion.

  * Requires MySQL
  * Download ITIS (http://www.itis.gov/downloads/itisMySQL121610_v3.TAR.gz)
  * Extract archive
  * Follow instructions in README.txt to import ITIS data
  * Creates database ITIS
  * Open ITIS2SKOS project
  * Modify SKOSGenerator:
    * Specify itis.rdf output directory
    * Specify MySQL connection information 
  * Run SKOSGenerator

== TGN ==

TGN is available in relational and XML formats. Access to source TGN vocabularies requires licensing from the Getty. After you receive your TGN access information
  
 * Extract tgn_rel_10_utf8_zip 
 * Open TGN2SKOS
 * Edit TGNReader, update path to source directory and output path
 * Run TGNReader 

== MeSH ==

Note: The current SKOS version of MeSH available from http://thesauri.cs.vu.nl/eswc06/ is not compatible with HIVE. A new converter is underway based on source MeSH files.

 * Download from http://www.nlm.nih.gov/mesh/filelist.html