
Berner D, Roesti M, Hendry AP, Salzburger W (2010) Constraints on
speciation suggested by comparing lake-stream stickleback divergence
across two continents. Molecular Ecology, online in advance of
print. doi:10.1111/j.1365-294X.2010.04858.x

Adaptation to ecologically distinct environments can coincide with the
emergence of reproductive barriers. The outcome of this process is
highly variable and can range along a continuum from weak population
differentiation all the way to complete, genome-wide divergence. The
factors determining how far diverging taxa will move along this
continuum remain poorly understood but are most profitably
investigated in taxa under replicate divergence. Here we explore
determinants of progress toward speciation by comparing phenotypic and
molecular divergence within young (< 150 years) lake-stream
stickleback pairs from Central Europe to divergence in older
(thousands of years) archetypal lake-stream pairs from Vancouver
Island, Canada. We generally find relatively weak divergence in most
aspects of foraging morphology (gill raker number, body shape) in the
European pairs, although substantial adaptive divergence is seen in
gill raker length. Combined with striking overall phenotypic
differences between the continents, this argues for genetic and time
constraints on adaptive divergence in the European pairs. The European
lake-stream pairs also do not display the strong habitat-related
differentiation in neutral (microsatellite) markers seen in the
Canadian watersheds. This either indicates the lack of strong
reproductive barriers owing to weak adaptive divergence, or
alternatively, that neutral markers are poorly suited for detecting
reproductive barriers if these emerge rapidly. Overall, our
comparative approach suggests constraints on speciation due to genetic
architecture and limited time for divergence. The relative importance
of these factors remains to be quantified by future investigation.
